## 1.0 Introduction

Welcome to Introduction for Health Data Analytics. In this first training task we will get familiarized with Python. Please if you haven't done so already download Anaconda from: https://www.anaconda.com/products/individual. Anaconda comes with a bunch of data science packages already installed which will make things a lot easier for us. 

To edit the code, go to the pencil icon at the top of this tab. Once you have finished writing your code, scroll to the very bottom and select "create a new branch for this commit and start a pull request" to upload your code.


First we we learn a little bit about coding in Python, although many of you will already have some experience with this, it won't hurt to refresh your memory! 

### Task 1: 

List all the Data Types of Python with examples.  

```
# int
a = 100
# float
b = 1.2
# string
c = 'acc'
```

### Task 2: 

Other useful ways of storing data are in List, Arrays and Tuples. Create one of each and assign them to the variables a, b and c respectively. 

```
# list
a = [1, 2, 3, 4]
# tuple
c = (1, 2, 3, 4)
# dictionary
d = {1:"first name",2:"last name", "age":33}
# arrarys
import numpy as np
b = np.array([[[4,36], [134, 94]], [[976, 234], [189, 123]],[[56,21],[109,67]]])
```

### Task 3: 

We are also interested in becoming good software developers so we will need to use conditional, loops. Write an statement where the summation of a variable x+1 will be calculated if the value of x is greater than 2. 

```
x = int(input ("input a integer"))
if x > 2:
    x += 1
```

Now incorporate a for loop to calculate the value of n(x+1) for n repetitions where n=3. Store each value of the for loop in an array named y.  

```
# I don't know which series of n I should use(n = 0 and 1 and 2 or n = 1 and 2 and 3) so I decided to use n = 0 then 1 then 2 like this: 
y = np.zeros(3)
for n in range(3):
    y[n] = n * (x + 1)
```

### Task 4: 

Finally we will have a look at creating functions. Functions allow us to compute processes much faster without having to repeat lines of code. Using your code from Task 3, create a function called 'my_cool_function', which takes in the value x and will compute the n(x+1) if x is greater than 2 and for n repetitions where values will be stored in an array named y. Your function will return y. 

```
n = int(input("input n iterations"))
x = int(input ("input a integer"))
y = np.zeros(n)
def my_cool_function(x):
    if x > 2:
        for i in range(n):
            y[i] = i * (x + 1)
    print(y)
      
my_cool_function(x)
    
```

### That is your first introductory python coding assignment completed! Hopefully you are now comfortable basic coding in Python!
