# Libraries

First of all if you haven't done so already download Anaconda here: https://www.anaconda.com/products/individual . Anaconda has a bunch of libraries and functionality installed which will really help us with our data analytics project. We will be using jupyter notebooks throughout this training period. 

To start getting familiar with some useful data analytics libraries, we will need to know how to manipulate data. For this we will be using NumPy and Pandas libraries. 

Documentation for NumPy: https://numpy.org/doc/stable/
Documentation for Pandas: https://pandas.pydata.org/docs/

### Task 1: 

Import the numpy library and make a key word for it: np 
Import the pandas library and make a key word for it: pd

```
import numpy as np
import pandas as pd

```


When to use which? Each of these libraries has very useful functionality but you need to know when to use them. 

### Task 2a)
Make a two-dimensional numpy array. First row will be: [1,2,3] and second row will be [4,5,6]. 
Using numpy functionality find the mean, minimum and max value of your array. Index the maximum value and assign it to a variable named max. Index the minimum value and assign it to a variable named min. 

```
arr = np.array([[1,2,3],[4,5,6]])
max  = np.argmax(arr)
min = np.argmin(arr)

```

### Task 2b)
Calculate the trimmed mean of the following array using ONLY Numpy and python's base functions: [67,67,65,50,69,68,67,70,69,66]. The trimmed mean is the mean of the data with the largest and the smallest values (outliers) removed.

```
arr = arr.remove(np.max(arr))
arr = arr.remove(np.min(arr))
trimmed_mean = np.mean(arr)
```

### Task 3

Create a DataFrame using the Pandas library. Your DataFrame should represent the table shown below: 

[Patient_table.pdf](https://github.com/alepgr/gubmes-hda/blob/main/Training/Patient_table.pdf)


```
l1 = ['A',50,'Arrhythmia']
l2 = ['B',60,'Heart failure']
l3 = ['C',70,'Unstable angina']
df = pd.DataFrame(list(zip(l1, l2,l3)),
               columns =['Patient', 'Age','Hear condition'])
```

### Task 4a)
Normally we would want to be able to extract the information from tables directly into our DataFrame. The Pandas library allows us to do this through one of its functionalities. Find out what this functionality is and read the csv file named 'Training2_example' found in the training folder or down below and create a DataFrame:

[Training2_example.csv](https://github.com/alepgr/gubmes-hda/blob/main/Training/Training2_example.csv)

```
df1 = pd.read_csv('Training2_example.csv')

```

### Task 4a)
Using your DataFrame from Task 4a), calculate the average systolic blood pressure of Dementia patients.

```
df_mean = df[df['Condition']=='Dementia']['Systolic Blood Pressure'].mean()
```

### That is the end of the second week of training. Make sure to keep trying out different libraries and their functionalities, this will help a lot with the project!
