# Visualizations

One of the most important aspects of Data Science is to visualize data. This is how we tell stories with our results. In this module, we will be using a selection of libraries to visualize data. 

**1. To make your plots, please use functionality within the matplotlib library and/or seaborn. Matplotlib is the primary scientific plotting library in Python.**
**2. Please save your figures using _matplotlib.pyplot.savefig()_ or using the tools on the interactive QT windows of Spyder, etc.**
**3. Upload your figures for each task by dragging and dropping them onto the relevant locations.**

### Task 1a):


Using the data from the 2.0 Libraries exercise, represent using a scatter graph, the relationship between age and blood pressure of the patients. Can you see any correlation between blood pressure and age?

[Training2_example.csv](https://github.com/alepgr/gubmes-hda/blob/main/Training/Training2_example.csv)

```

```
To be sure whether there's a correlation, we can calculate and plot a line of best fit.

### Task 1b): 

Calculate and plot a line of best fit on your scatter graph from Task 1a). Does this change your perception of the relationship depicted in the plot?

```

```

Something else you might want to do with your visualizations is compare the results from different clusters or groups. In our patient data, we may want to compare if there is any relationship between specific coditions and the age-pressure correlation observed.

### Task 2: 

Using the data from the 2.0 Libraries exercise, plot the relationship between age and blood pressure for each condition. Are there any patterns? Is this representation useful?

[Training2_example.csv](https://github.com/alepgr/gubmes-hda/blob/main/Training/Training2_example.csv)

```

```

To be more efficient with our visualizations we would want to have a visual comparison between all of our categories (i.e conditions) on the same plot.

### Task 3: 

Using the data from the 2.0 Libraries exercise, now plot the relationship between age and blood pressure for each condition on the same plot. Make sure to have a legend detailing all the conditions shown. Describe any patterns you can see.

[Training2_example.csv](https://github.com/SoFia2401/gubmes-health-data-analytics/files/7404392/Training2_example.csv)

```

```


### Well done! this is the end of this training exercise. This is just to give you a flavour of what visualizations might look like. Make sure to keep practicing more on your own!
